Danish natural history institutions together hold over 20 million physical objects, with data (such as the scientific names of the animals, plants and fungi held in their collections) about these physical assets (and their digital twins), stored in a database called Specify. Most DaSSCo institutions have their own (slightly differing) implementation of Specify. The different implementations of Specify are managed by the Natural History Museum of Denmark and the data is physically stored at the latter institution. Media (digital assets) associated with the specimens are held on a web asset server which communicates with Specify. Unfortunately, the current storage solution is slow, has limited functionality and is not scalable for DaSSCo (which anticipates adding and updating digital assets at a rate of up to 5 Petabytes every 5 years once the infrastructure is fully functional).

Access to digital assets will mostly be via Specify and pushed to a data portal (to be developed at a later stage in the project) and other publishers on the web. However, a subset of this data will not be available via Specify (e.g., CT scans or full resolution images). In these latter cases, access to the assets will need to be made direct to their storage location. In all cases access to the digital assets must be managed with an access control layer (this is not possible in the current solution).

To support the digitisation effort, project metadata captured during the digitisation process and selected data harvested from Specify needs to be captured in a registry to monitor progress, do quality assurance checks, and mediate access. Data should be able to flow both ways between the registry and Specify. This registry should capture the relations between the digital assets and metadata and must allow for queries in to this data structure. During the life cycle of digital assets, each asset will undergo a series of transformations (essentially an Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) process) which may lead to new metadata and new digital assets (e.g. a processed image may be created from an original raw image). The registry must support this ETL process workflow.

DaSSCo engaged an external consultancy to work with them to complete this work. The work was divided into multiple phases.

The Github project board is here: https://github.com/orgs/NHMDenmark/projects/32
